Add resources for accessibility and how to handle accessibility changes (#1372)
shopware/docs: resources/accessibility/storefront/index.md

---
nav:
  title: Storefront
  position: 30
---

# Accessibility in the Storefront

At Shopware, we are committed to creating inclusive and barrier-free shopping experiences for our merchants and their customers.

## What shopware does to ensure accessibility

* Shopware is committed to fulfill the [WCAG 2.1 AA](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) accessibility guidelines and Barrier-Free Information Technology Regulation (BITV 2.0) in the Storefront.
* The Storefront is using [Bootstrap components](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/accessibility/) that already consider good accessibility practices, for example using aria roles.
* Much of the HTML structure and CSS styling already fulfill accessibility guidelines. However, there are still [open accessibility issues](#Overview-of-known-accessibility-issues) that will be addressed. 
* Automated [E2E testing with playwright](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/tree/trunk/tests/acceptance) and axe reporter are used to ensure future accessibility.

## How core accessibility improvements are released

> Accessibility improvements are rolled out in regular minor releases, similar to other improvements or bug-fixes. We implement all accessibility improvements in the current major version `6.6.x` and also `6.5.x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessibility improvements are rolled out in regular minor releases, similar to other improvements or bug-fixes. We implement all accessibility improvements in the current major version `6.6.x` and its minors.
```

There is no large "accessibility release" planned that ships all accessibility improvements at once. 

## How to deal with breaking accessibility changes

Ensuring an accessible shop page can require changes in the HTML/Twig structure or the CSS. This can cause unintended behavior for an extension that is modifying an area that is being changed to improve accessibility.

Because of this, breaking accessibility changes are not enabled by default. All accessibility changes that include breaking changes are implemented behind a feature flag: 

```env
ACCESSIBILITY_TWEAKS
```

However, breaking accessibility changes are still released regularly inside minor releases. They are just not active by default to not cause a breaking change.

The feature flag `ACCESSIBILITY_TWEAKS` can be activated inside your `.env`, similar to the major feature flags like `V6_7_0_0`. When the feature flag is enabled, all available accessibility improvements are activated.
This allows you to check if your project or extension is effected by the change and already prepare an adaptation to the change if it is necessary.

> ::: warning

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how this is supposed to look, but it looks a bit strange in the markdown preview

Author: Yeah this is looking weird here. 😆 In GitHub there is no preview for this special syntax. In the real docs it will look like this:

![image](https://github.com/shopware/docs/assets/8480203/d71efdf2-6ff5-45fb-a93f-9e3d7a16be95)

Reviewer 3: We will add a guide soon to the docs README how to preview dev docs locally 

Here is the current one:

https://github.com/shopware/developer-portal/blob/main/QUICK-START.md

> With the major version v6.7.0 all accessibility improvements will become the default.

Author: Recommendation for 6.5.x, always activate `ACCESSIBILITY_TWEAKS` flag? ⬇️

Reviewer: you mean 6.6.x?

Author: No I meant 6.5.x. This is what I wanted to clarify.
